## Overview
This repository includes our works on Urban Traffic Flow Prediction by Graph Convolutional Network.

The file structure is listed as follows:

1 T-GCN is the source codes for the paper named “T-GCN: A Temporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Prediction” published at IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (T-ITS) which forged the T-GCN model model the spatial and temporal dependence simultaneously. 

2 A3T-GCN is the source codes for the paper named “A3T-GCN: Attention Temporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Forecasting” published at ISPRS International Journal of Geo-Information which strengthen the T-GCN model model with attention structure.

3 AST-GCN is the source codes for the paper named “AST-GCN: Attribute-Augmented Spatiotemporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Forecasting” published at  IEEE Access which strengthen the T-GCN model model with attribute information.

4 KST-GCN is the source codes for the paper named “KST-GCN: A Knowledge-Driven Spatial-Temporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Forecasting” published at IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (T-ITS) which  which strengthen the T-GCN model model with knowledge graph.

5 CGCN is the source codes for the paper named “Curvature graph neural network” published at Information Sciences which used ricci curvature information to model pivotal nodes.
 
6 Baseline includes methods such as (1) History Average model (HA) (2) Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average model (ARIMA) (3) Support Vector Regression model (SVR) (4) Graph Convolutional Network model (GCN) (5) Gated Recurrent Unit model (GRU)

## 1. T-GCN: A Temporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Prediction
Accurate and real-time traffic forecasting plays an important role in the Intelligent Traffic System and is of great significance for urban traffic planning, traffic management, and traffic control. However, traffic forecasting has always been considered an open scientific issue, owing to the constraints of urban road network topological structure and the law of dynamic change with time, namely, spatial dependence and temporal dependence. To capture the spatial and temporal dependence simultaneously, we propose a novel neural network-based traffic forecasting method, the temporal graph convolutional network (T-GCN) model, which is in combination with the graph convolutional network (GCN) and gated recurrent unit (GRU). Specifically, the GCN is used to learn complex topological structures to capture spatial dependence and the gated recurrent unit is used to learn dynamic changes of traffic data to capture temporal dependence. Then, the T-GCN model is employed to traffic forecasting based on the urban road network. Experiments demonstrate that our T-GCN model can obtain the spatio-temporal correlation from traffic data and the predictions outperform state-of-art baselines on real-world traffic datasets.

The manuscript can be visited at https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8809901 or https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.05320

## 2. A3T-GCN: Attention Temporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Forecasting
Accurate real-time traffic forecasting is a core technological problem against the implementation of the intelligent transportation system. However, it remains challenging considering the complex spatial and temporal dependencies among traffic flows. In the spatial dimension, due to the connectivity of the road network, the traffic flows between linked roads are closely related. In terms of the temporal factor, although there exists a tendency among adjacent time points in general, the importance of distant past points is not necessarily smaller than that of recent past points since traffic flows are also affected by external factors. In this study, an attention temporal graph convolutional network (A3T-GCN) traffic forecasting method was proposed to simultaneously capture global temporal dynamics and spatial correlations. The A3T-GCN model learns the short-time trend in time series by using the gated recurrent units and learns the spatial dependence based on the topology of the road network through the graph convolutional network. Moreover, the attention mechanism was introduced to adjust the importance of different time points and assemble global temporal information to improve prediction accuracy. Experimental results in real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of proposed A3T-GCN.

The manuscript can be visited at https://www.mdpi.com/2220-9964/10/7/485/html or arxiv https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.11583.

## 3. AST-GCN: Attribute-Augmented Spatiotemporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Forecasting
Traffic forecasting is a fundamental and challenging task in the field of intelligent transportation. Accurate forecasting not only depends on the historical traffic flow information but also needs to consider the influence of a variety of external factors, such as weather conditions and surrounding POI distribution. Recently, spatiotemporal models integrating graph convolutional networks and recurrent neural networks have become traffic forecasting research hotspots and have made significant progress. However, few works integrate external factors. Therefore, based on the assumption that introducing external factors can enhance the spatiotemporal accuracy in predicting traffic and improving interpretability, we propose an attribute-augmented spatiotemporal graph convolutional network (AST-GCN). We model the external factors as dynamic attributes and static attributes and design an attribute-augmented unit to encode and integrate those factors into the spatiotemporal graph convolution model. Experiments on real datasets show the effectiveness of considering external information on traffic speed forecasting tasks when compared with traditional traffic prediction methods. Moreover, under different attribute-augmented schemes and prediction horizon settings, the forecasting accuracy of the AST-GCN is higher than that of the baselines.

The manuscript can be visited at https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9363197 or https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.11004.

## 4. KST-GCN: A Knowledge-Driven Spatial-Temporal Graph Convolutional Network for Traffic Forecasting
While considering the spatial and temporal features of traffic, capturing the impacts of various external factors on travel is an essential step towards achieving accurate traffic forecasting. However, existing studies seldom consider external factors or neglect the effect of the complex correlations among external factors on traffic. Intuitively, knowledge graphs can naturally describe these correlations. Since knowledge graphs and traffic networks are essentially heterogeneous networks, it is challenging to integrate the information in both networks. On this background, this study presents a knowledge representation-driven traffic forecasting method based on spatial-temporal graph convolutional networks. We first construct a knowledge graph for traffic forecasting and derive knowledge representations by a knowledge representation learning method named KR-EAR. Then, we propose the Knowledge Fusion Cell (KF-Cell) to combine the knowledge and traffic features as the input of a spatial-temporal graph convolutional backbone network. Experimental results on the real-world dataset show that our strategy enhances the forecasting performances of backbones at various prediction horizons. The ablation and perturbation analysis further verify the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that constructs and utilizes a knowledge graph to facilitate traffic forecasting; it also offers a promising direction to integrate external information and spatial-temporal information for traffic forecasting.

The manuscript can be visited at https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9681326/ or https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.14992.

## 5. Curvature graph neural network
Graph neural networks (GNNs) have achieved great success in many graph-based tasks. Much work is dedicated to empowering GNNs with adaptive locality ability, which enables the measurement of the importance of neighboring nodes to the target node by a node-specific mechanism. However, the current node-specific mechanisms are deficient in distinguishing the importance of nodes in the topology structure. We believe that the structural importance of neighboring nodes is closely related to their importance in aggregation. In this paper, we introduce discrete graph curvature (the Ricci curvature) to quantify the strength of the structural connection of pairwise nodes. We propose a curvature graph neural network (CGNN), which effectively improves the adaptive locality ability of GNNs by leveraging the structural properties of graph curvature. To improve the adaptability of curvature on various datasets, we explicitly transform curvature into the weights of neighboring nodes by the necessary negative curvature processing module and curvature normalization module. Then, we conduct numerous experiments on various synthetic and real-world datasets. The experimental results on synthetic datasets show that CGNN effectively exploits the topology structure information and that the performance is significantly improved. CGNN outperforms the baselines on 5 dense node classification benchmark datasets. This study provides a deepened understanding of how to utilize advanced topology information and assign the importance of neighboring nodes from the perspective of graph curvature and encourages bridging the gap between graph theory and neural networks. The source code is available at https://github.com/GeoX-Lab/CGNN.

The manuscript can be visited at https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0020025521012986 or https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.15762.
